Initial changes to installation for STF 1.5.3 (#484)
infrawatch/documentation: doc-Service-Telemetry-Framework/modules/proc_deploying-stf-to-the-openshift-environment.adoc

= Deploying {Project} to the {OpenShift} environment

[role="_abstract"]
Deploy {Project} ({ProjectShort}) to collect and store {OpenStack} ({OpenStackShort}) telemetry.

[id="deploying-observability-operator_{context}"]
== Deploying Observability Operator

// TODO: https://access.redhat.com/articles/7011708 covers migration to OBO from community-operators Prometheus Operator. This documentation references community-operators as the installation CatalogSource. It is hoping OBO is available from redhat-operators CatalogSource prior to STF 1.5.3. If so, then we will need to update this.
{Project} ({ProjectShort}) uses other supporting Operators as part of the deployment. {ProjectShort} is able to satisfy most dependencies automatically but some Operators need to be pre-installed, such as Observability Operator which provides an instance of Prometheus.

.Procedure

> . To store metrics in Prometheus, you must enable the Observability Operator by using the community-operators CatalogSource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To store metrics in Prometheus, enable the Observability Operator by using the community-operators CatalogSource:
```

+
[WARNING]
====

> Community Operators are Operators which have not been vetted or verified by Red Hat. Community Operators should be used with caution because their stability is unknown. Red Hat provides no support for community Operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Community Operators are not verified or supported by Red Hat and should be used with caution.
```

Reviewer: Fair enough

https://access.redhat.com/third-party-software-support[Learn more about Red Hat’s third party software support policy]
====
+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
$ oc create -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: Subscription
metadata:
  name: observability-operator
  namespace: openshift-operators
spec:
  channel: development
  installPlanApproval: Automatic
  name: observability-operator
  source: community-operators
  sourceNamespace: openshift-marketplace
EOF
----

> . Verify that the ClusterServiceVersion for Observability Operator `Succeeded`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that the `PHASE`of the ClusterServiceVersion for Observability Operator is `Succeeded`:
```

Author: If we make this change, we should make it everywhere. I copied the existing phrasing from other locations.

Author: I'm going to reject this change for now until we can do a full documentation walk/review during final docs review before merge to stable-1.5.

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
oc get csv --namespace=openshift-operators --selector=operators.coreos.com/observability-operator.openshift-operators

NAME                             DISPLAY                  VERSION   REPLACES                         PHASE
observability-operator.v0.0.25   Observability Operator   0.0.25    observability-operator.v0.0.22   Succeeded
----

[id="deploying-certificate-manager_{context}"]
== Deploying Certificate Manager for OpenShift Operator

> Deploying Certificate Manager for OpenShift is done automatically during installation of Service Telemetry Operator on {OpenShift} v4.12 and later. If you're deploying {Project} ({ProjectShort}) on {OpenShift} versions prior to 4.12, the Certificate Manager for OpenShift needs to be deployed prior to Service Telemetry Operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Certificate Manager for OpenShift deploys automatically during installation of Service Telemetry Operator on {OpenShift} v4.12 and later. In earlier versions of {OpenShift},  you must deploy the Certificate Manager for OpenShift before Service Telemetry Operator.
```

> NOTE: Preinstallation of Certificate Manager for OpenShift is only required on {OpenShift} versions prior to 4.12. If you're installing {ProjectShort} on {OpenShift} 4.12 or later then skip this procedure.

Reviewer: Is this saying the same thing as previous line?

Author: Probably, but I wanted to call out out a bit more explicitly with a NOTE box in case someone skipped over reading the preamble.

Author: Now that I've looked at it again after rendering, I agree this seems to duplicate itself. I will tweak this section and make the overview more generic and update the note for the OCP version stuff.

Reviewer: If you use the `stable-v1` channel to install Service Telemetry Operator, then the Certificate Manager for OpenShift is automatically installed. 
If you use the `tech-preview`channel to install Service Telemetry Operator, then you must pre-install the Certificate Manager for OpenShift. 
If you install {ProjectShort} on {OpenShift} 4.12 or later, you do not need to pre-install the Certificate Manager for OpenShift.

Author: I've made an alternative change to the content. When you're back from PTO we'll review. I'm going to merge these changes today.

openshift-cert-manager.v1.7.1   cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift   1.7.1-1              Succeeded
----

== Deploying Service Telemetry Operator

> Deploy Service Telemetry Operator on {OpenShift} to provide the supporting Operators and interface for creating an instance of {Project} ({ProjectShort}) for monitoring of {OpenStack} ({OpenStackShort}) cloud platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy Service Telemetry Operator on {OpenShift} to provide the supporting Operators and interface for creating an instance of {Project} ({ProjectShort}) to monitor {OpenStack} ({OpenStackShort}) cloud platforms.
```

.Prerequisites

> * Installation of Observability Operator which provides Prometheus for storage of metrics. For more information, see xref:deploying-observability-operator_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installation of Observability Operator which uses Prometheus to store metrics. For more information, see xref:deploying-observability-operator_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[].
```

> * Installation of Observability Operator which provides Prometheus for storage of metrics. For more information, see xref:deploying-observability-operator_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Installation of Observability Operator which includes Prometheus for storage of metrics. For more information, see xref:deploying-observability-operator_assembly-installing-the-core-components-of-stf[].
```

Author: I think provides is actually the more accurate word here. Installation of OBO alone doesn't provide a Prometheus instance, only by creating and enabling it in ServiceTelemetry does OBO ultimately satisfies for Prometheus.

ifeval::["{build}" == "upstream"]

// NOTE: setting priority to 0 which makes it highest priority. This allows us
// to skip the pre-installation step for Smart Gateway Operator as it will be
// installed through dependency resolution, but will pull from the Infrawatch
// Operators CatalogSource for upstream deployments rather than from Red Hat
// Operators CatalogSource (which may not be compatible, or out of date).
. Before you deploy {ProjectShort} on {OpenShift}, you must enable the catalog source. Install a CatalogSource that contains the Service Telemetry Operator and the Smart Gateway Operator:
+
[source,yaml,options="nowrap",role="white-space-pre"]
----
$ oc create -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: operators.coreos.com/v1alpha1
kind: CatalogSource
metadata:
  name: infrawatch-operators
  namespace: openshift-marketplace
spec:
  displayName: InfraWatch Operators
  image: quay.io/infrawatch-operators/infrawatch-catalog:nightly
  priority: 0
  publisher: InfraWatch
  sourceType: grpc
  updateStrategy:
    registryPoll:
      interval: 30m
EOF
----

> . Validate the creation of your CatalogSource:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Validate that the CatalogSource is installed:
```

NAME                            DISPLAY                                       VERSION   REPLACES   PHASE
openshift-cert-manager.v1.7.1   cert-manager Operator for Red Hat OpenShift   1.7.1-1              Succeeded
----
////

> // TODO: this needs to either result in a KCS for migrating to redhat-operators

Reviewer 2: This one? https://access.redhat.com/articles/7011708

Author: I knew there was one somewhere! Wasn't handy. Thanks!
